Let's open seeds
Database seeder
And for now we don't need to call other seed
so just remove it.
And here let's do the same thing as we did in tinker so factory
Pass the user class and the first parameter
and specifies the number of data that will be created.
in this case 3 and end with create method call
OK.
Now here we also need to create some fake questions right?
If you try to do like so factory
app question let's say ten
So if you do like this then you are wrong.
It will be failed because if you remember a question has to be linked to particular user as we see in
migrations
in this table schema.
We have defined foreign key user id that reference id on users table.
So in this case we need to create one or more question for each user that will be created. And we can
do that by simply I'll remove this
and we can simply chain in after method call with each method calling and pass in a callback or anonymous function
So this means that each time a user created will do something else.
What we will do here is creating some fake questions for that user.
So I'll put this.
So let's define an argument in these callback to represent a single user.
Here I'll call u
then get all questions of the user like
so as we define user like this.
So here
and since we want to create more than one questions we can call
save many
And here we simply call another factory helper function.
Factory pass in the question class
and we'll generate 1 to 5 questions randomly.
And finally we call make make method not create method
In this case because create method will insert records to database while make method will generate objects
and stored it in memory.
All right before we moving on I realized that actually I made a mistake in question model so I'll open it
up
and here in this user method relationship this should be belongs to.  Save all changes.
Back to our terminal. Here I'll quit from tinker
And here we can simply type php artisan
migrate:fresh to drop all tables in the database and then rerun all migrations. This because we have created
some users in tinker before and we'll make sure that we have fresh database before actually run our seed.
And finally we add --seed to run our seed after
database migration successfully run
ups
question doesn't exist let me see
OK this should be questions
Yes.
So here questions save that
and let's run migration fresh seed again
still error
Now what? slug doesn't have default value
let me see question
oh yeah I'm sorry
this should be defined in question
model of couse.
So I'll cut that and paste here.
Save
let me run migrate fresh seed again
Okay let me see in phpmyadmin
here I have 3 users
and nine questions.
The total records in this table may be different with yours because the seed we call a random function
so it's no problem in this case.
Okay great.
Let's save our work to our git repo
git add all
And then git commit -m
And I'll say prepopulate users and questions table using model factories
and seed
here I'll push the current branch to my remote repo git push origin lesson-3
you're probably don't have to push your all branches to remote repo. But I do this so that you can see my work.
So just in case you face any error when you follow a particular lesson then you can compare your work
with mine.
Now let's switch to our master branch git
Check out master.
And then merge to our lesson three branch git merge lesson three
OK.
Now let's push our master branch to our remote repo git
push origin
master
All right.
So now that we have some records in our users and questions table. In the next lesson we'll
be building a new feature that is display all questions from our database
to our application's view
OK I'll see you in the next lesson.